ref(crumbs): Improve crumbs doc (#114)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/sdk/event-payloads/breadcrumbs.mdx

This page provides technical information about a breadcrumb structure. You can read an overview of manual breadcrumb recording and customization on our [Breadcrumbs](https://docs.sentry.io/enriching-error-data/breadcrumbs/) sentry docs page.

An event may contain one or more `breadcrumbs` properties. The entries are ordered from oldest to newest. Consequently, the last entry in the list should be the last entry before the event occurred.

The following example illustrates the breadcrumbs part of the event payload and omits other attributes for simplicity.

```json
{
  "breadcrumbs": {
    "values": [
      {
        "timestamp": "2016-04-20T20:55:53.845Z",
        "message": "Something happened",
        "category": "log",
        "data": {
          "foo": "bar",
          "blub": "blah"
        }
      },
      {
        "timestamp": "2016-04-20T20:55:53.847Z",
        "type": "navigation",
        "data": {
          "from": "/login",
          "to": "/dashboard"
        }
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

A breadcrumb object contains the property `values`, which is an array of objects with the following properties:

`type` (optional)

> The type of breadcrumb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: The type of breadcrumb. By default, all breadcrumbs are recorded as `default`, which makes them appear as a Debug entry, but Sentry provides other types that influence how the breadcrumbs are rendered. For more information, see the [description of recognized breadcrumb types](#breadcrumb-types).
```

Reviewer: Note the tiny change here that renders the term and definition for easier reading. A good example of this is in src/docs/platform/javascript/common/config/basic.mdx

Tl;dr Use this format:
`term`

: definition

The term is then bold and in code format with the definition that follows slightly indented.

> By default, all breadcrumbs are recorded as `default`, which makes them appear as a Debug entry, but Sentry provides other types that influence how the breadcrumbs are rendered. For more information, see the [description of recognized breadcrumb types](#breadcrumb-types).

Reviewer: added to above

`category` (optional)

> A dotted string indicating what the crumb is or from where it comes. Typically it is a module name or a descriptive string. For instance, `ui.click` could be used to indicate that a click happened in the UI or flask could be used to indicate that the event originated in the Flask framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: A dotted string indicating what the crumb is or from where it comes. Typically it is a module name or a descriptive string. For instance, `ui.click` could be used to indicate that a click happened in the UI or flask could be used to indicate that the event originated in the Flask framework.
```

Internally we render some crumb’s color and icon based on the provided category. For more information, see the [description of recognized breadcrumb types](#breadcrumb-types).

`message` (optional)

> Human readable message for the breadcrumb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Human readable message for the breadcrumb.
```

If a message is provided, it is rendered as text with all whitespace preserved.

`data` (optional)

> Arbitrary data associated with this breadcrumb.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: Arbitrary data associated with this breadcrumb.
```

Contains a dictionary whose contents depend on the breadcrumb type. Additional parameters that are unsupported by the type are rendered as a key/value table.

`level` (optional)

> This defines the severity level of the breadcrumb. Allowed values are, from highest to lowest: `fatal`, `error`, `warning`, `info`, and `debug`. Levels are used in the UI to emphasize and deemphasize the crumb. Defaults to `info`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: This defines the severity level of the breadcrumb. Allowed values are, from highest to lowest: `fatal`, `error`, `warning`, `info`, and `debug`. Levels are used in the UI to emphasize and deemphasize the crumb. The default is `info`.
```

`timestamp` (recommended)

A timestamp representing when the breadcrumb occurred. The format is either a string as defined in [RFC 3339](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3339) or a numeric (integer or float) value representing the number of seconds that have elapsed since the [Unixepoch](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time).  
Breadcrumbs are most useful when they include a timestamp, as it creates a timeline leading up to an event `expection/error`.

## Breadcrumb Types

Below are descriptions of individual breadcrumb types, and what their `data` properties look like.

> ### `default`

Reviewer: rather than setting these as H3, I'd recommend using 
`term`
: description

as the format for this and the following terms for easier readability. You'll need to move the margin in for the code samples so they align as well.

Author: I tried to align the samples and phrases that start with "Internally ..." by adding some indentation, but that doesn't seem possible as it still displays the same or the json as a text. Please see below:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/29228205/91662043-299dc200-eae0-11ea-80bc-e28d008ce59b.png)

Reviewer 2: Hi @priscilawebdev, thanks for helping with docs. I'm taking a look at this and may have a solution shortly. 😸

title: Breadcrumbs Interface
---

> Sentry uses _breadcrumbs_ to create a trail of events that happened prior to an issue. These events are very similar to traditional logs but can record more rich structured data.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Sentry uses _breadcrumbs_ to create a trail of events that happened before an issue. These events are very similar to traditional logs but can record more rich structured data.
```

Author: I like your suggestion but I will leave it as it is to be consistent with the breadcrumbs description that we have on docs.sentry https://docs.sentry.io/enriching-error-data/breadcrumbs/

Reviewer: +1 on adopting this intro. We should move to it for all breadcrumbs docs.

Breadcrumbs are most useful when they include a timestamp, as it creates a timeline leading up to an event `expection/error`.

## Breadcrumb Types

Below are descriptions of individual breadcrumb types, and what their `data` properties look like.

### `default`

Describes a generic breadcrumb. This is typically a log message or user-generated breadcrumb. The `data` part is entirely undefined and as such, completely rendered as a key/value table.

```json
{
  "type": "default",
  "category": "started",
  "data": undefined,
  "event_id": "null",
  "level": "info",
  "message": "this is a message",
  "timestamp": "2020-08-28T07:19:20.926196Z"
}
```

### `debug`

This is typically a log message. The `data` part is entirely undefined and as such, completely rendered as a key/value table.

_Internally we convert events with the category `console` to the type `debug`._

```json
{
  "type": "debug",
  "category": "started",
  "data": null,
  "event_id": null,
  "level": "info",
  "message": "this is a message",
  "timestamp": "2020-08-28T07:29:37Z"
}
```

### `exception`

> The occurrence of an expection.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The occurrence of an exception.
```

_Internally, we don't get the exception data from the breadcrumb entry, but from the exception entry._

```json
{
  "entries": [
    { "type": "exception", "data": {...} },
    { "type": "breadcrumbs", "data": {...} }]
}
```

> The `data` object of an expection will always contain the `mechanism` property describing if the expection was handled or not.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `data` object of an exception will always contain the `mechanism` property describing if the exception was handled or not.
```

```json
{
  "mechanism": { "type": "generic", "handled": true },
  "module": null,
  "rawStacktrace": null,
  "stacktrace": null,
  "threadId": null,
  "type": "TypeError",
  "value": "Failed to fetch"
}
```

### `error`

> An error that occurred prior to the exception.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An error that occurred before the exception.
```

### `http`

This represents an HTTP request transmitted from your application. This could be an AJAX request from a web application, or a server-to-server HTTP request to an API service provider, etc.

Its `data` property has the following sub-properties:

`url` (optional)

The request URL.

`method` (optional)

The HTTP request method.

`status_code` (optional)

The HTTP status code of the response.

`reason` (optional)

A text that describes the status code.

```json
{
  "type": "http",
  "category": "xhr",
  "data": {
    "url": "http://example.com/api/1.0/users",
    "method": "GET",
    "status_code": 200,
    "reason": "OK"
  },
  "timestamp": "2016-04-20T20:55:53.845Z"
}
```

### `info`

> Information that could help you identify the root cause of the issue or who the error happened for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Information that helps identify the root cause of the issue or for whom the error occurred.
```

### `http`

This represents an HTTP request transmitted from your application. This could be an AJAX request from a web application, or a server-to-server HTTP request to an API service provider, etc.

Its `data` property has the following sub-properties:

`url` (optional)

The request URL.

`method` (optional)

The HTTP request method.

`status_code` (optional)

The HTTP status code of the response.

`reason` (optional)

A text that describes the status code.

```json
{
  "type": "http",
  "data": {
    "url": "http://example.com/api/1.0/users",
    "method": "GET",
    "status_code": 200,
    "reason": "OK"
  },
  "timestamp": "2016-04-20T20:55:53.845Z"
}
```

### `info`

> An information that could help you identify the root cause of the issue or who the error happened for.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Information that could help you identify the root cause of the issue or who the error happened for.
```
